- Hey, Cliff.
- Hey, Michael, how's it going?
- Going very well.
Happy to have you here on the YouTube channel
and on the podcast in just a second.
People out there watching,
throw your thoughts and comments into the live stream.
I can already see Sam is on top of it.
Been waiting for the PyCon video,
this talk to get released.
Well, I know I've been waiting as well, Sean,
but we're here to get this info out for you sooner or later.
and throw out for you sooner.
So let's, Cliff, let's jump in the podcast.
Cliff, welcome to Talk, yeah,
Cliff, welcome to Talk Python To Me.
- It's good to be here.
Thank you very much for having me.
- It is good to have you here
and it's good to have you back.
You've been on the show a couple of times,
way back when you talked about shipping software to users.
And then also not so long ago, a little while ago,
we talked about running Python in production
And those were a bunch of fun shows
and really excited to now talk about secrets.
Although it does pose a bit of a problem.
If we talk about secrets, are they still secret?
- That is an interesting epistemological question,
but luckily that's not the question
that we need to answer today.
'Cause the kinds of secrets we're gonna talk about
are the ones that are meaningless.
They are by definition, not very interesting to humans,
but to computers.
- Yes, they are.
They're both for you to access your database
and cryptocurrency people to get cheaper crypto mining.
- Yep.
- Depending on which way it goes,
if you do it right or wrong.
So before we get into that though,
let's just do a quick catch up.
It's been, gosh, at least a year
since you've been on the show, a little bit more.
So what have you been up to?
What are you doing these days?
- Yeah, so I am nominally independent now.
I am trying to make a career out of having good ideas
and putting them on the internet.
Worked for a lot of different companies,
doing a lot of different things.
Now I am making my own app.
I'm making an app called Pomodorobros,
which is a terrible name that I'm sure you can't spell,
but I'm sure we'll have some links in the show notes
to get to that,
which is a ADHD time blindness assistance app.
assistance app. And so on the one hand, I'm kind of leaning
into the neurodiversity thing. I have ADHD, and I'm kind of
trying to help other people with it as well. But also, it is
written entirely in Python. I'm working on the Mac version
first, but there'll be other versions later. And it's all
open source. And so I have a Patreon at patreon.com/creatorglyph
which has just terrible reward tiers. Hopefully, I'll improve
of those soon, but the idea is if you
want to support various open source libraries
that I'm working on maintaining, we'll
talk about a couple of new ones that I've released recently
in this podcast.
If you want to support the random stuff that I do,
now you can.
And so we'll see.
People have been telling me for years
that they love the stuff that I do,
so I guess we'll find out if they, in fact, do.
>> Well, congratulations.
That's really awesome.
somebody doing independent stuff myself, I know how rewarding it is, but also how stressful
it is, especially early days.
>> Yep.
It is equal parts harrowing and amazing.
>> Yes.
That's well said.
Well said.
So, yeah, certainly we will link to those in the show notes.
You give me the links, I'll throw them in there for people.
You said something interesting that I don't hear a lot of people say that I actually wish
I heard more often was I'm working on a macOS version and the words Python
So this is actually more kind of dovetails with what we're going to be talking about today in an interesting way
Which is that one of the things that I want to be doing with my independent work is kind of letting people
program their own computers and
Part of that is like a lot of people use Macs. So I'm working on Mac desktop stuff
I hope to do some mobile stuff later. I also want to do Linux and Windows desktop versions of this app and then of others
And because I think that it's we've lost touch with that a little bit
You know, yeah, we all do stuff in the cloud these days particularly in Python
But Python's so versatile and you can use in so many places
And the way that that sort of dovetails with what we're gonna be talking about today is that?
it's also a neglected part of the security story because
No matter how great all of your cloud security is using AWS secrets manager and hashing Corp vault and you know all kinds of cloud
security stuff it all kind of terminates at your computer if your computer is not secure if the
Secrets that you have locally in your possession are not properly managed then all the cloud stuff
Like you're doing it from your computer
So that computer had better be secure and if it's not
that kind of flows outward towards everything else if you're a developer or
assistant men, so
so yeah, so so the
Two libraries that we're gonna be talking about today are also both
They're a little bit more traditional kind of console text things, but they are
Designed to be run on your computer and not on the cloud
Yeah, absolutely. It's a lot of interesting things for like how do you secure secrets?
connection strings and whatnot on your machine, right?
- Mm-hmm, yeah.
So, and as far as the other sort of desktop programming stuff,
we do not have time to get into that today,
but you can definitely follow my blog
for more interesting details about how--
- Right, are you willing to share a quick
what GUI framework you're using sort of thing
and how are you packaging it up?
- So I wrote a little tool called Encrust
that does some of the code signing stuff.
I'm packaging it with Py to app right now.
And for GUI framework, I'm just using PyObjective-C
and writing all of the GUI by hand
as like a traditional Mac app.
I plan to redo the GUI for each platform
'cause Pomodoro Bros is a thing
that needs to be a local Mac app,
like it can, or a local desktop app rather.
And so I really want to get the UI
very kind of finely tuned per platform.
And so cross-platform GUI toolkits
don't really do some of the stuff that I need to do.
So, and that's kind of part of the point
I want to make with it is it's actually not that hard to just like write things
multiple times. The Python lets you keep all the logic and a nice kind of core.
And then if you need to call some native APIs,
Python can do that pretty much everywhere.
Okay. Well, very interesting approach.
I think one of the things that's held me back from going, Oh,
I'm going to use Tkinter or a GDK or whatever. It's just like, Oh,
but it just doesn't really look like it belongs here that much.
It looks kind of like it belongs here, but not really.
And that, I don't know, some people don't mind that.
To me, it's just, I'm not a big fan.
So I'm looking forward to this.
It sounds great.
- Cool, maybe you can have me on again to talk about it
when it's closer to done.
- Yeah, absolutely.
It'd be fun to talk about, you know,
sort of going through and building,
how you built it and some lessons that you've learned, right?
Also, I'm working on some desktop apps now and it's,
It's not as easy as it used to be.
It's like, oh, this one's not signed.
And so it won't open because macOS gatekeeper
says it's probably dangerous.
And you're just like, ah, it's...
I used to be able to just hand out an app, all right?
We can't have nice things because of people.
And I guess that's pretty much a great lead
into this entire talk, because if we could have nice things,
we wouldn't even need this talk, would we?
- Exactly.
- I guess it's worth mentioning that I reached out to you
and I had you on the show here
because you gave a talk at PyCon,
how to keep a secret.
And what is it today?
It's May 24th, so a month and two days.
And I was kind of looking forward
to watching all these on YouTube and they're not out yet.
So how about we have a podcast episode about it
and share that with everyone.
So I'm looking forward to kind of doing
the audio conversational version of your talk.
- How did your talk go there?
- I thought it went great.
There was pretty good response in the audience.
One of the things I did, which I would recommend
for other conference attendees and speakers in the future
is whenever anybody came up to me and said, great talk,
which is very nice, I appreciate it when people do that.
What I didn't just say thanks, I said, thank you.
And how is this gonna affect your behavior going forward?
what did you learn from the talk that's going to change what you do? And a lot of people had
specific things that they were going to change about their workflows or their kind of personal
security. And so that was telling me, I think this is an important message to get out there.
And I think that it's something that every developer should know about. So the fact that
people were really learning from it, I thought was the best metric for success.
- Yeah. It's got a lot of small lessons for many people. And I suspect most people are not doing
all of these things. So even if you're like, yes, of course, I
keep, you know, I don't put secrets into my source code, or
do you? But there's something else. I'm sure there's
something for everyone here. So yeah, let's, let's kick things
off by talking about what you mean by secrets, right? What
what are we talking about here specifically?
So the main kind of secret that I'm talking about is a token type of secret.
Whenever you use an API on the web, they'll give you like a little hex key,
usually a short string that lets you access it.
Cryptographic secrets, like if you have some encrypted blob that's stored in block storage,
you might have a crypto key that's a similar kind of thing.
for your HTTPS certificates, you've got like, you know,
private RSA key or something or ECTSA key that's a little bit
longer, but still kind of a text file that's no more than 20
lines. And so all of those secrets are kind of are
interesting. And I wanted to talk about them in particular,
because the way that security works just on computers
generally, is that all of your other security, all of the other
bigger secrets you want to keep the confidential documents, the media files or whatever it is that
you're securing, your database, your user accounts, all of that stuff is secured by a smaller secret.
And so these secrets generally represent some kind of authority, like a thing that you can do
in the cloud. Even cryptographic ones are kind of like the authority to decrypt another secret.
And so that's, and in particular, the reason that the restriction of the scope of this discussion to those smaller secrets is interesting, is because those smaller secrets don't have like a lot of interesting storage requirements, like they just, they're very small. And it's really about how you secure them, not so much about how you manage like a huge scale of them.
Yeah, also, if you're going to, say, encrypt huge blobs of data, usually what you actually
need to get back to it is just the encryption key, which is often pretty small, right? So
even if the actual data is large, usually the thing that is the access to it is also small.
Right.
What you said you were not covering?
So yeah, there's a bunch of encryption and that kind of stuff, right?
Yeah, there's a lot of other security stuff that you need to do.
Like I touched briefly in the talk on disk encryption.
We can talk about that in a little bit, but it's mostly not about that.
In particular, like there's been a lot of discussion lately about end-to-end encrypted messaging between people.
And I'm not really talking about that either.
This is really about securing your applications.
it's a lot of these techniques have to do with how you get your secrets, not just
secured for you, but like into your Python code in a way which keeps them
secure kind of on the whole journey from typing them in to using them in a
production application.
Yeah, for sure. I was as you're talking, I'm thinking, this problem is only
getting worse, right? We're only consuming more API's in our code, and
we're only stitching together more backends of cloud systems.
Right.
Yeah.
And it's a little
right.
Code for a while.
I have to like, it used to be, well, what's your database connection
street?
All right, we're good.
We're done.
That's what you store, right?
How do we store that?
well, and if you were doing something really esoteric, you would have like
a Twilio API key, so you could send like SMS messages and now you've got like
your billing provider and your, your database provider and your cloud and
your user, you know, your customer relationship management API and your
email service, it's just like, there's an API key for everything. And the scale of
this stuff is like, really, if you do this sort of simple thing that all the
tutorials show you to do for each of these services, you end up in a complete
mess with like, basically no security on anything. So yeah, that's and that's why
I wanted to talk about this at this point, because we need that security.
Yeah, we definitely do.
So I want to start out a little bit like you did with your talk,
although not the same.
I want to start out with something that maybe gets people's attention,
that might make them worry a little.
And that's this project that has gone unmaintained
and has been shut down, I think, because it was a little too much
on the edge of what really you should be doing.
And it's called Shugit.
Shigit is a CLI thing, I'm not exactly sure.
Yeah, basically a little app you can run,
a little CI that you can run
that will show you secrets in Git code,
in code in Git repository.
So you can look at your own,
but for a while they were running this website
called like shigit.com or something, like secret.
And it was just a live stream of just all the secrets
that were being committed to public repositories,
just screaming by.
And it's going by so fast that you really can't read it.
And this is just the public,
here's all the things being uploaded.
These are all these API keys, database connection strings,
et cetera, that we've been talking about
that are just, you shouldn't be doing an,
oh my gosh, look at this, right?
Like this has got to grab people's attention.
- Right, and this isn't,
It's worth noting that this feed is not people accidentally committing their secrets to the improper kind of
Secure place in their organization where they like accidentally push to a private git repo
This is only showing you public repos with
Api like valid api keys being committed to them. So
if you know you can imagine within organizations, there's probably 10 times as much traffic where stuff is being shared too broadly
Oh, yeah, people at least know they shouldn't do this and they still are like they might think it's okay in their private repos, right?
Right. Exactly. It's just easier. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Fantastic. Okay
so
you also pointed out right before we hit record that github has a more
Constructive official way of doing this as well. You want to tell people about the github secret alerts
yeah, I I don't know a whole lot about this except that it is a feed
that also produces a lot of data,
but there are secret scanning alerts.
And I believe it's also only for public repositories.
There might be some enterprise stuff that I have not used.
Like you can, yeah, so as it says on the page, I guess,
organizations using GitHub Enterprise Cloud with a license
for GitHub advanced security can also enable secret scanning
for users on their private and internal repositories.
But yeah, this is something that if you're running an open source project, or you have a corporate GitHub account, you should probably look into just to understand like, how to manage these alerts, how to get them and what to do if people are accidentally checking in secrets to your repository, because you may have to worry about open source PRs, including other people's API keys, if they were like testing something out with your tool,
you right that's more likely even as you might have a placeholder enter API key here don't
commit it and someone commits it in a PR right something like that yeah yeah so don't do that
don't don't put a place to paste something in a file that's actually checked into git but
it is uh i think that it's also important not to shame people too much for doing this like
what one of the points of of showcasing these tools is to say like hey people are like leaking
secrets constantly, you should be aware that it's a serious problem. The other is, people
are doing this constantly. It's a really easy kind of mistake to make. And so if you do
it or if some junior engineer on your team pushes some secrets to GitHub, you know, don't
shame them. It's not a dumb thing to do. It's incredibly easy to screw up in this way. And,
you know, we should we should help each other build better processes. So let's, you know,
so don't, don't feel like it's a thing to mock or laugh at.
So you're not suggesting that GitHub adopts a new kind of badge, like a secret teller badge or something if you're caught doing this?
I think let's not gamify that in either direction.
Like, it's a hard enough conversation already.
It is. Well, and it can happen even if you know you shouldn't. Maybe you understand the security, but you don't, you're not good with Git and you accidentally over commit stuff and you're like, oh, whoops.
Yep, that's a very common way that it can happen.
And even if you are very familiar with Git
and you know not to do this
and all of the projects that you've set up
are set up properly,
you might find yourself in an unfamiliar repository
assuming that something is Git-ignored and it's not.
You know, there's lots of different ways it can happen.
- Yeah, yeah.
So I guess if you're running an open source project,
it's probably worth turning on
or at least looking into the secret scanning
that GitHub has, if it's on GitHub, right?
- Yeah. - So, yeah.
And if you wanna startle yourself,
just check out the link,
the animated GIF in the Shigit repository.
All right, so as we start our conversation
about the different secrets, the pitfalls,
and how we might keep them,
you told, this was a really creative presentation at PyCon,
and you presented it through by way of,
mostly by way of storytelling.
- Well, thank you for saying so.
- Was it Gerald?
Yes, of course.
Was it Gerald who was your?
- Jethro, Jethro.
- Jethro is the protagonist.
Yes, got it.
- So yeah, I,
so there's this practice in security engineering,
which I'm sure a lot of your listeners would have heard of,
which is called threat modeling.
And threat modeling can be a bit dry
because it's really just repeating these same scenarios
over and over and over again with slight things changed.
And so I thought a good way to frame that
would be like a time loop story
where our protagonist is running this service
and every time through the time loop,
his service gets pwned and taken down
via some kind of compromise of secrets
and he wakes up and has to do it all again
and try to secure things properly.
So that's where we get started.
Yeah, for sure.
Yeah.
And one of the things I also kind of called out
is I should mention this here too.
It can be a little bit stressful listening
to all these different things.
So this isn't exactly a content warning,
like a really serious, heavy stuff.
But be aware that even if it sounds kind of light and fun
and informative, if you find yourself ideating
on these same ideas of like, oh no, all of, you know,
this could go wrong, this could go wrong,
or this could go wrong.
Like that is kind of just what security engineering
is like, but also it can kind of drive you crazy.
So like, don't let yourself get trapped
in cycles of anxiety.
Just be aware that, you know, you kind of have to do
your best and like make a reasonable effort,
but you're never gonna get everything perfect.
So, and in fact, I'll spoil the story a little bit
since we're not quite going through it in order here.
That's really the twist at the end of the talk
that Jethro needs to like just put forward a good effort across the board for managing his secrets
and not, you know, absolutely perfectly defend against every attack, but also not to defend
against each attack piecemeal, kind of onesie-twosie, just like, "Oh, I'll address this
thing and then I'll address that thing and then I'll address that thing." It's like, think about
your whole process. So yeah, so I guess we should dive into what those actual specific attacks are.
- Well, before we do that, one thing that I thought
was really nice that you pointed out is,
at least for me, when I feel like I'm putting a website
up there, I feel like, oh my goodness,
what have I forgotten?
But you point out that there's a lot of people
on your side, right?
There's the operating system vendors,
the open source maintainers,
want to riff on that a bit?
Sure. Yes. This is also important to remember because so for
example, just to like, some one attack that's been in the news a
lot lately is typo squatting and software supply chain attacks,
right? Like somebody uploading something malicious to pi pi
somebody uploading, you know, pad Nass instead of pandas, and
you tie, you know, fat finger the name in pip, and then Oh,
know, you're like running code from some attacker. And that is
a threat. And you know, there, you should be concerned about
it, you should mitigate it in your code. All of the different
ways to do that are like a little bit out of scope for this
discussion. But also, it's important to remember that a lot
of these attacks are things that it's hard to demonstrate in like
a quick, like, you know, circa 2007, type sniffing your
Facebook password off the wire, like, hey, look at this, like
immediate attack where I've got all of your stuff. The and
they're difficult to demonstrate because PyPI is actively scanning
for these types of packages, they're actively responding to
reports, there are lots of people, there are lots of
security researchers developing tools, some of them kind of over
aggressively running them against the index to take up a
little too much too many resources. But there are lots of
people doing things to defend you against each one of these attacks.
And so the simplistic version of them will rarely work out of the box.
the, the threat from typo squatting is a race condition.
It's that somebody uploads a malicious package that doesn't look malicious
enough to get automatically caught in these various ways.
that doesn't get immediately flagged.
It's not popular enough to like be installed on a lot of people's machines.
and that you happen to do the typo in the window where it's still up before the admins have taken it down.
That is a real threat, but it is not that as serious as like,
"Oh, it's just a free-for-all. Anybody can upload anything anywhere."
Like, there's a lot of security.
There's the, not just the PyPI admins, but the distributors of all of the libraries on PyPI that you use
are developing better processes on the teams that do uploading.
PyPI now has orgs. And so we're doing like projects are starting to gather
into organizations to apply more consistent security rules for uploading
across the board. So there's lots of work that's going on. I happen to know a
lot about PyPI, but your operating system vendor also is like, yeah, you
could run some malware and that would really ruin your day. But you know,
Apple, Microsoft, Google, Red Hat, none of them want their operating system to
be implicated in the attacks, so they're constantly hardening their applications,
hardening their APIs, developing secure APIs that developers can use to prevent
certain attacks. Different platforms are kind of at different stages of maturity
there and have kind of different security features, but they're all trying
their best to prevent the worst case from happening. And so you're not like
alone in this fight, you need to model your own threats and use the tools that
you've been provided in ways that are kind of helpful, but you don't have to
do everything yourself, you don't have to worry that you're kind of besieged with and you're the
only defender. You're actually in a pretty big crowd of defenders and we all got to share knowledge
with each other to try to help each other out. That's interesting. You know, we are, you know,
there's a big concern about supply chain attacks and, you know, open source building blocks and
but it is a bit of a herd immunity type of thing, right? Yeah. If something comes in pretty soon,
if it at all starts to gain any popularity, people are going to notice and it'll get beat down. So
it's scary, but it's maybe not as likely to broadly affect the ecosystem.
Right. And that doesn't mean that you can give up on this work or put it off as some kind of
gold plating that you're going to do later, but it does mean that you can kind of moderate the
the amount of energy that you put in. And the way that you
should think about it as an individual as an app developer
is like, you should be trying to figure out what your
responsibility is, and handle your part of the responsibility.
Don't try to like, you know, think about every threat and
become a like a vulnerability researcher in order to secure
your application, like let those people, there's a lot of people
doing that stuff, let them do their job and just kind of
figure out, okay, what do you need to do? Because obviously,
No matter how great the defenses are, if you don't use them, if you're not, you know, properly
secure in your own processes, then it doesn't, it doesn't matter.
Like you can easily if you're pushing your, you know, root cloud keys to GitHub in a public
repo, all of the security of the world's not going to help you.
Yeah, it's not gonna be great.
Yeah.
So you said there's even a PEP to help solve this PEP 541.
What is about 541?
>> Oh, I forget the exact specifics.
>> It is...
>> Oh, yeah, so that, that 541 is actually a little bit broader than just like typo squatting.
It's about how PyPI like retains names, how they deal with trademark dispute resolution.
You know, it outlines some of the responsibilities of package maintainers.
So for example, like one of the typosquatting or one of the attacks against supply chains
is if you use a vanity domain name for your PyPI account, and then you let the domain
name lapse, and then somebody like registers the domain name, now they have access to your
account because they can do a password reset.
And so there are various responsibilities that you have, like you have to be reachable.
If your project has been abandoned, the index might take it away, right?
Like they might shut it down, they might freeze it.
And there are, this PEP kind of lays out a bunch of processes for various things.
And one of them is, you know, how things get taken down, how projects become invalid, what
a typosquat is.
And so it's an even broader project than just the security of typosquatting, and or even
broader than supply chain security.
It's like the whole supply chain shebang.
And there will probably be more PEPs in this area in the future, I think.
Yeah, I would imagine. Yeah. So for example, if I had Michael.com and I registered on my account was
Michael or me at Michael.com and then I didn't that that went away someone else could buy
Michael.com for who knows how much and then do a password reset and they they control all of my
super important open source projects on there. Yeah. And then they can immediately do uploads,
which is kind of a problem.
Right. That might not be awesome.
Okay, so that's PEP 5.4.1. Got it.
Let's see, what else?
Yeah, so it was all about threat modeling, right?
And you basically come through and you say,
"Okay, well, first we're going to write some code,
and then let's just push it to the cloud."
And...
To the cloud, it says...
Yeah. Uh oh. You can't, you can't run your website, right?
So the first thing you got to talk about when you talk about secrets is,
human generated secrets.
The ones like your passwords that you actually have to remember and type in
with your fingers. don't ever share those.
If you're sharing passwords between accounts,
if you've got like a LinkedIn account that has been around for a decade,
that's probably been in a breach.
a breach, even if it hasn't been in a breach. Oh, yeah, I, for
those who are not on the live stream, Michael is now typing
have I been pwned, which is a great tool that you can use to
see if your passwords have been in a previous breach. And
spoiler alert, yes, they have. So what you should see the first
lesson is like you should be using a password manager,
because that's the kind of absolute root of your security.
you have your kind of vault password
for your password manager.
You need to be able to remember that,
you need to generate that securely.
And then you should let your password manager
actually generate all of the passwords
for all of the different sites and apps that you use,
because you don't wanna be sharing those between them.
Because inevitably, if you share a password
between 10 sites, one of them will get breached,
like for sure. And then all of the others can be breached later by anybody who can,
you know, buy that data dump on the dark web or, you know, access that information. So
I actually wrote like one of the tools that I released during this talk at PyCon is called
the pin pal, which is kind of to help people adopt a password manager. One of the challenging
things about adopting a password manager, especially if you haven't got one already,
is you really need to generate a long secure password and you have to memorize it. And
you really can't forget that because this is something that happened to Jethro. You
have to think about not just confidentiality, but there's this thing called the CIA triad
where you've got confidentiality, integrity and availability of your service. And if you
get hacked and people steal your secrets, then they can access
your cloud and it's game over. But if you forget all of your
passwords, and you can't access your cloud, it's just as equally
game over. So you have to like, do that memorization, you should
ideally also change your, your root password once every couple
of years, you shouldn't change it too frequently, like policies
that make you rotate every 90 days or whatever are just a kind
of relic of a bygone time and not a very good idea. But you
shouldn't keep it forever. And that process can be difficult
because you need to memorize it. And because password managers
try to be convenient, they're not prompting you for all the
time. So pin pal is this thing that kind of like sets up a
spaced repetition process where it's like gradually generating
the password over time. It just kind of prompts you over and
over for like, here's the first word it generates it, it asks
you to kind of read it back to it. It's a little console tool
that you like put in your prompt to see if it's time to do a memorization pass.
But you can use Pinpal, memorize the password before you get the password manager,
make sure you've got it thoroughly memorized.
And then you don't have to worry so much about like,
oh, where was that little piece of paper that I put in my wallet that has the password in it?
Because like, it's been a week and now I have to enter my master password again.
Pinpal can kind of get that part of the inconvenience of adopting a password manager in the first place out of the way.
And so I've made it as easy as I possibly can for you.
I know that that's the one thing that like gets people stuck.
And so now you have no excuse.
Gotta get a password manager right now.
- I absolutely, totally recommend a password manager.
And I personally use one password,
but I'm also a big fan of Bitwarden.
Props to the open source side of Bitwarden.
That's pretty cool.
And the pricing for the pro version is like a,
you know, a couple of dollars a year
or something ridiculously small.
So it's, they're good alternate or good options.
- Yeah, Dashlane is also pretty good.
Full disclosure, that was actually started
by my cousin in France, oddly enough.
- No kidding.
- Yeah, it's a little weird aside there.
I don't believe he works there anymore, but yeah.
And so those options are all good.
I would avoid LastPass.
If you've been using LastPass, that's fine.
It's still way better that like, again,
it can be easy to catastrophize security.
Like LastPass had a bunch of breaches
and the breaches were like worse than they said
and their security, like they used a lower iterations
on their key derivation function than they should have.
And so there's all these issues with LastPass,
but like if you had been using LastPass
when they got breached, you're still in way better shape
than if you had been trying to like memorize--
- Just reusing your passwords, yeah.
- Yeah, one of the big, I think, big no-nos of LastPass,
other than also the low iteration,
the folding account,
was that a lot of stuff is stored in plain text.
So like the URL of the place for which the password goes to
is stored in plain text so that the hackers
could go through the dump and go,
okay, well, just show me all the Bank of America ones.
Let's just work on that for a while, right?
- Yeah, they definitely had an architecture
that was like bad for no reason.
Like there's no reason that they should,
those that stuff.
- I totally agree.
So yeah, people would choose the last pass if they want,
but there's a bit warden one password.
That's where my heart lives.
And I would certainly recommend it.
I did have one, have I been poned up?
And I would just like to point out,
the question is, have I possibly, right?
I can tell you the very,
it has a list of most recent breaches.
This Luxottica one here was 77 million.
I just got a notification that I was in that one.
That's like literally the most recent one.
And here's what drives me nuts about these things,
this bit of a sidebar.
So nothing you can do about it,
but it's maybe about the, you give it your best shot
and you can just only do so much.
I am in this breach because I went to my eye doctor
and my health provider,
they subcontracted to Luxottica
to get my glasses created.
Luxottica was hacked and therefore my information,
I'd never even heard of this company
or interacted with them and yet here we are, right?
And so, you know, do your best, but don't go crazy.
- Yep.
- Okay.
- So, okay.
- I guess you have more control over, right?
But I guess one of your very first recommendations
was use a pass manager or use something like PenPal
to help not forget your password to your password.
And sort of the lesson is the CIA triad,
like availability is also important,
not just the other two security bits,
but if you can't get to it anymore, that's still a problem.
- Yep. - Yeah.
- So don't be your own worst attacker.
- Exactly.
- So yeah, and I guess one of the other major things
I wanted to talk about here,
that's part of this story is that the documentation,
so Jethro follows the docs on a lot of different things
that he's looking at.
And a lot of those docs,
and this is kind of the inspiration
for the talk in the first place,
was that many, many APIs are documented by saying,
here's some code,
and here's where you paste the string of your API key.
And big companies do this.
Stripe does this, DigitalOcean does this.
It's not a unusual thing.
It's not a thing that only kind of low security
uninteresting APIs do.
The idea is they're writing the docs
assuming that you kind of have some secret
management strategy to begin with,
that you know your API token is really sensitive.
And so obviously you won't follow their example directly,
but like as seen from the GitHub stream of,
you know, constant secrets being pushed to public repos,
A lot of people don't know that.
And there shouldn't be any shame in not knowing that.
Like if the docs say, put this string here,
and you're like, okay, I'm gonna put that string there.
There's no way that you could have like,
somehow known in advance if you're a novice coder,
that, oh, if you put that string there, like they said,
then all of your money will be stolen
and your servers, attackers will move thousands of servers
to mine cryptocurrency.
So one of the things that calls to action here is if you're maintaining those docs, if you're leading people down that path, please, like, at least mention that this token is extremely sensitive, at least explain that people should be looking somewhere else for documentation of what to do.
And like in Python, it's actually quite easy
to know what to do.
It's use key ring,
like exactly how you configure key ring
and what you do with it,
we can talk about in a minute or two.
But from the perspective of like an application
loading something from the example,
from the perspective of like a code example
that you wanna put on a website,
just never tell users to put a string directly in the code.
The string in your code is obviously
never the user's like actual API key,
they're gonna have to edit it anyway.
So in the example code,
just import keyring into a keyring.getpassword.
And they can replace that with their key
as easily as they can replace a string,
but at least you're calling out there,
oh, hey, this is like a piece of data
that has to be managed in a particular way.
Here's how you manage it in Python
is you call the keyring.getpassword API.
So the keyring module is like very simple.
It's basically just a wrapper around a function
returns a string. But by centralizing that function, all
of the myriad nuances of what exactly like how exactly to get
that string, how's it encrypted? Where's it stored? Whatever can
be kind of pushed out of the application.
Yeah, so let's talk about k ring a little bit. It's a Python
library that you can use. And you can say, basically, save a
secret or get a secret. It calls it a password. I kind of would like it to not be password
because what if it's an API token for that? I don't know. It seems a little, what if it's
a connection string? I don't know.
Yeah, it's a little bit like, it was definitely written quickly and saw just a crazy amount
of adoption and we're kind of just stuck with that naming now. I agree that it's not the
best, but it's fine. Any secret token that you treat this way is kind of functionally
a password. So the terminology is a little confusing, but it's
fine.
Yeah, so regardless of whether it's an API key or a password or
a connection string, you can say keyring.setpassword, or
keyring.getpassword. And that's pretty much the API, right?
Yeah. And the nice thing about it is that there's a there can
be a lot of complexity in how it's configured. But the
default, if you just like pip install keyring, and you start
using it on a desktop machine, Windows, Linux, macOS doesn't
matter. It by default will use your platform's default secret
store, which is kind of the best that you can do without any
additional configuration. And ironically enough, for the talk,
I really wanted to talk about like, how this works on every
platform, I kind of figured that every platform was like
equivalently secure. And I kind of hate being a shill for a you
know, trillion dollar corporation, but like Apple does
this so much better than either of the other major desktop
platforms, because on the Mac, you've got like, intra user
security boundaries. So like your there's apps are generally
sandboxed on the Mac if they come from the App Store, if
they've opted in. Even if they're not sandboxed, there's a
lot of things that they can't do. Like if you may have noticed
If you use a Mac, if you try to like run a Python program on like a file on your desktop or in your documents folder, it'll like pop up a dialogue and say like, Hey, this program is trying to access this thing.
Secrets or something like that, where when an app tries to access a secret, it, you have to not just say yes, but you have to like enter your account, your login password again.
And you can choose to either allow it temporarily or permanently.
And you can then go in and configure it to say like, oh, this like I know I said that I this app could access its own secrets, but like, actually, I want to be prompted every time. So like, for example, my pi pi keys, if I use twine or, you know,
flit to upload a package to PyPI, I always get a password
prompt because my PyPI token is not stored anywhere on my file
system. It's and the key that's stored in my Mac key ring is
like, locked, it's not allowed to be automatically accessed by
anything. And that adds a little bit of friction versus something
like PyPI package uploads, like you want to have that friction
there you don't, it's not very frequently used. Now on Windows
and Linux, you still get like some protection against offline attacks, you get protection against other users, like if you share a
computer or you're on a Windows, like, you know, a corporate laptop where things are executed under, like administrative tasks
are executed by your company under different users. It'll be protected from that it'll be protected when you're not logged in.
And on Linux, oddly enough, you can lock your credential locker, but like only the whole thing. And then anytime any app needs to do anything, it's like, Hey, do you want to unlock this again? And so like your mail client will be checking your mail, and it'll constantly be saying like, Hey, do you want to unlock this, but nevertheless, it is still locked in a way that like, if you step away from your computer, if the, you know, screensaver is on, I think it will generally kind of lock it for you. So it provides as much protection as it can, given the way the
platform works without any additional inconvenience. Like
if you use key ring, and you and you just kind of use it in the
default mode, you get a bunch of extra security, and it's all for
free, like you don't have to think about it. It'll just work.
You then get a little
comfortable. I'm pretty comfortable just putting true
secrets into macOS keychain, for example, I feel like you
know, that's, that's a pretty safe, it's probably better than
a source file, a text file.
Yes, it's definitely better than a text file.
And it's better than a text.
It's, I mean, it's way better than a text file in your get repo.
It's still much better than a text file, like in your home directory, like a lot
of the less irresponsible code documentation tends to tell you to like put your keys
uh, into like dot this app dot CFG in your home directory or something.
And that's like kind of okay, like any software that can steal stuff out of your home directory is probably already, you know, got a lot of control of your computer. But it's still better to put it in key ring. If you can.
Right. Well, I my assumption about most malware type of things is it's going to take it's going to be 100% automated, right? There's, I imagine there's very few, I'm just going to remotely log into each computer and go hunting for secrets more like it's going to look for well known things much like if, if you tail the log of your website, you're going to see some things acts trying to access slash WP admin dot PHP, even if it's not a PHP site, like that's, they just got the things they look
and they're gonna go through their processes
to gather secrets and access.
And I guess the less standard, the less obvious it is
to get a hold of it, probably the better.
- Yeah, and I mean, it's easy to kind of trick yourself
into thinking like, oh, I should just put everything
in like really weird locations
and like the automation won't find it.
Quite often the automation like does kind of scrape
through every file it can get access to
'cause it doesn't cost them anything.
They can just like read every file.
It's your processor, it's your processing.
Maybe just run Shaget on every Git repo
you can find on your computer.
Right.
So it's better to put all your eggs in one basket
and really watch that basket.
And that's what the keyring approach is.
But it also, beyond just the protection against malware,
there's also a level of management that you can do.
it puts by using your platform's default key ring
or encrypted store,
there are platform specific APIs
for like enumerating secrets.
And so if you're trying to do an inventory of like,
what secrets are on my computer,
having them in there is nice
'cause you don't have to go hunting around for them.
It gives you as a defender a little bit of an advantage
'cause you know what you're defending against,
you know, oh, hey,
this secret shouldn't be on this computer.
This should really be like only,
you know, on this one server over here.
So using key ring also gets you that.
It also gets you this configurability
'cause like once you actually put your code
into production in the cloud,
it's not going to have access to your local key ring
on your Mac.
- It's gonna be a certain deadlock of your app
if it pops up.
Can this website access the key chain?
Use touch ID allow.
It's probably not gonna work in production.
- Right, so you have to use an alternate key ring back end
to on your server.
And that is a little bit awkward.
And that sometimes turns people off and they're just like, ah, I'll just use a
config file.
But there are ways to configure like, and they're actually documented like right on
the key ring, web page.
Like you can, it talks about key rings dot crypt file, which is this like extra
backend that you can get that, store stuff in an encrypted file.
Key rings dot all includes like just a plain text file.
If, if you know that on your server, you have like a secure place to put a text
file, because the server is going to need to be accessing the
secret over and over again, you can just say, Okay, I'm going to
configure the back end as part of this Docker container, like
it's just going to read this file from this volume. And
that's the keyring back end I'm using. But again, that's all
configuration. So you you write your app to just use keyring.
And then after the fact, when you're setting up your
deployments, you can select what the most appropriate back end is.
And in fact, one of the things I talked about during the talk was I, as I was trying to find like the super secure way to like disable access to secrets on Windows and Linux, and I didn't find it, I actually wrote my own key ring back end to demonstrate how you would do this that does the encryption with the key ring protocol or the sorry, the client to authenticate or protocol on a UB key or web auth key.
It's called token ring, you can pip install token ring.
And it works on Linux, it works on macOS,
it works on Windows, and it requires you
to be seated at your computer with your YubiKey plugged in
in order to use this like keyring backend.
So by configuring--
- So when your Python code hits keyring.getpassword,
the next thing that has to happen before that returns,
you have to touch the YubiKey.
- Right.
And so this is also a good example of how like,
this was a cool project.
It was fun to play around with that API.
I had some smarter security people than me look at it
to make sure I wasn't releasing something super unsafe
just for a laugh.
So I think it is definitely usable.
But it's also an example of a keyring backend
that you would not always want to use, right?
Like this is for your super, you know,
high security secrets.
It doesn't even have support for multiple YubiKeys.
So again, you gotta think about availability,
like anything you put into this,
you probably wanna back up somewhere else,
but it is a relatively convenient thing.
You just have to kind of touch it
with your finger to unlock it,
but it's also really, really secure.
So like some of your secrets,
you might wanna put into this backend
to make sure that there's no way for software
to access them automatically.
There's no way that malware running on your computer
is gonna be able to just like Hoover them up.
anytime you see a prompt for a, you know,
authenticator touch that you weren't expecting,
that's like a real eyebrow raise moment.
And so, but, you know,
Token Ring is just kind of my example of one of these things.
There are dozens of other keyring backends
that you can use for either different levels of security
on your own machine.
Although honestly, the platform encrypted stores
are generally pretty good, like for a default,
But you can also use alternate backends
for different cloud secret providers.
Like I believe HVAC,
which is a HashiCorp Vault backend.
I haven't actually used HVAC,
so I'm not totally sure how it works,
but I believe it actually has a key ring backend,
which is only one like tiny part of what it does,
but it can turn a vault into a key ring for you, I think.
If it can't, then the adapter to do so
would be very trivial to write.
But that's the idea is that you write your code to use keyring
and then wherever you deploy it,
you can figure it to use the keyring
that's appropriate to that context.
- Right, right, right.
One of the interesting ones is the Bitwarden backend,
which is kind of nice.
- Right, I was actually a little disappointed
because I'm a big 1Password fan.
I don't use Bitwarden personally.
And I was like, "Oh, but there's a CLI.
Like they could have made one."
And I'm sure somebody eventually will.
- Yeah, I think it's also worth just a quick pointing out
that both 1Password and Bitwarden come with CLIs.
So that is an option, right?
And 1Password even can be an SSH daemon
for some of that as well.
So those are both options for ways
that your app can directly interact
with your password manager.
And it doesn't have to necessarily be the one
that you use, right?
For example, you and I are 1Password people,
but maybe our app is a Bitwarden person.
- Right, yeah, it's all about separating
that like software authorship thing
from the user experience, right?
Like the user should be able to select their own key ring.
And it almost sounds like a little bit trivial
to say just use key ring and it'll all work,
but like it's that separation
that you're trying to achieve,
is that you want code that can be configured
to be as secure as it needs to be
and has like good defaults for most people.
- Okay, all right, so there's a couple more lessons in here.
If you're a doc writer, don't encourage people
to put their API token straight in the source code
and you shame a few well-known companies
saying it's not just that, but yeah.
- Yeah, so that was like the biggest lesson,
but some other things here is that,
or sorry, another call to action here
is that you really want to think about,
think about that time loop that you're in, right?
Like what are all of the different attacks
could impact you, write them down,
think about how, what you wanna be secure against,
the talk when it's out on YouTube
kind of goes through them in order
and can maybe when it comes out, you can have a listen.
But once you've written that down,
stick to it and make sure that your processes are such
that it's really easy to do all of the defenses
that you have selected that are like relevant to you
and to your application.
Like doing threat modeling is a great way
to draw a line around that anxiety
about like how secure are my secrets?
Like if it's all just vibes and like,
oh, you think about this one news story one day
and then you write some security that like defends
against that one particular thing,
or you like do something on your laptop one day
that's in a more secure way,
but you don't like encode that as a process
or something that you do repeatedly for each new secret.
Like, as you said, close to the top of the show here,
like we're all using a zillion APIs now.
So if you think of a good way to access your Stripe API key,
and then next week you have to add Braintree support,
and then the week after that, you have to add,
you know, open AI, right?
Like as you add each one,
you need to be doing things the same way,
both so that you can correctly implement
your security controls for each new thing,
but also so that once you've implemented them,
when you want to enhance them,
when you grow to a certain size,
you start getting more attacks,
you start getting, you know,
facing new, more difficult threats as your bigger target,
you have to be able to upgrade and you want to be able to
upgrade all of your secrets management at once as easily as
you can. And there are other things outside the scope of
what we're talking about today. Like, you also need to be able
to like rotate those secrets, which is a whole other mess. I
mean, that's what tools like HashiCorps vault can like help
manage that part of the process. But yeah, so the call to action
for like doc writers and framework authors is like,
don't document things the wrong way,
don't provide bad defaults,
you use key ring if you're doing Python stuff,
but the call to action for like app maintainers
and people operating services is do some threat modeling,
write it down and do everything the same way.
Like the more that it's all funneled
through that choke point of key ring
and of your documented security processes,
the more that when you have to make it better,
it will not be a giant pain of like trawling through all of your code and all of your libraries and trying to figure out where things even are.
You'll just be able to look at your, you know, the code that's accessing the secret and say like, Oh, well, we're gonna switch from like, you know, our sort of homegrown thing to some to vault or to Amazon secret store or, you know, the Google Cloud equivalent or, you know,
DigitalOcean has a thing, everybody's got their own
secret storage thing, there's a bunch of products
in this area, and when you adopt one,
you want that process to be as smooth as possible.
- It's also probably a bit of a friction.
I always think about, you know,
how do you encourage people to do the right thing?
In a way, you discourage them as you add friction
and you make it harder to do the right thing, right?
So if the right thing is to,
you figure out a way to manage one of your secrets,
well, make it easy to bring on another API,
make it easy to basically get in there and change that
and work with that system.
Yeah.
All right, let's see.
We're getting short on time, but what other lessons do we have?
Talk a bit about where do we put some of these things.
You did also point out that there's--
beyond the keyring stuff is you do have some stuff for like AWS
secrets in particular. And I suppose there's probably other
ones as well, right? Like what we talked about so far, mostly
is security on your computer or security on the one server that
you go and run your app or the cluster of servers. But you
know, what about GitHub automation? Things like that,
right?
Right. So there's, there's various tools. The two that I
talked about in my talk are there's a tool called AWS vault.
There's another one called gimme AWS creds,
which make it more secure to store your AWS credentials in particular.
Cause those are pretty in the same way that like your computer is the root of
security for like everything.
And that's where all your secrets are ultimately stored.
Your AWS account is like kind of the root of your security for AWS for all of
your cloud resources if you're using them. So it's that,
it's good to focus more on like the specific things that have a lot of power.
Those also can reduce the power,
like have roles that have like less permission that isn't just like your cloud
root API key for everything.
And so there's those, there's also like GitHub, it has a secrets
system, which is effectively just injecting environment variables.
but it stores them in a way that like keeps them out of your repo.
It puts them in a place that again, you can enumerate,
you can see all of the secrets that are provisioned against your particular
repository. It manages access control for like, you know,
public open source PRS can't like immediately access all those secrets cause
they're running.
Like they have to be run in a way that indicates that like an admin has kind of
seen that something is going to happen. so they only run on like your,
your main branch or things like that.
So it's good, whatever,
it's a little difficult to talk about these.
And this is one of the reasons
that I focus so heavily on your local computer,
both because it's kind of the base of this pyramid,
but also because you really have to do that research
on your own because you have to know
what services you're using and what tools are available
to manage certain secrets within them.
And keyring is so important
because it's the thing that gives you
the joint of flexibility to say like,
oh, well, when it's running in GitHub,
it's gonna be in an end var,
and it's gonna be in this end var,
and I'm gonna write a key ring back, and it knows that.
- Interesting, yeah, key ring sounds like
a really important piece of this story.
- Yeah, I mean, it is, in the Python world,
it really is like the beginning of every story
about improving your security is,
okay, now that you're using key ring, you can,
and then there's like the next thing,
and there's a bunch of directions you can go in,
depending on if it's your local computer,
if it's the cloud, if it's like a dedicated server,
if it's an embedded device, right?
There's all different ways that you could go,
but it kind of all starts with like acknowledging
that you're gonna need that flexibility.
And honestly, you could write your own version of keyring.
You know, all it is a function
that like looks at a config file
and figures out what other function to call.
But because it's the standard one,
like it is a social convention that is very powerful
because you really don't want to write all of your own backends for everything.
Right. It's about the integration with the other systems,
about integrating with the Bitwarden CLI and with macOS keychain and doing all
those things. Right. Yeah.
Right. Yeah.
And those good defaults are really important because like integrating with the
macOS keychain is not easy and keyring just does it all for you. So,
yeah. Yeah. one thing I also wanted to, this is kind of a minor point,
but I just,
I really want to toss it in there because I feel like it's rarely,
covered, which is environment variables have kind of taken over in the cloud,
like that they're the standard way that a lot of services expect you to inject
stuff. so I can't say like, don't use,
and VARs like it's just, that's not feasible, but when you can avoid them,
like if you can get your credentials stored some other way,
like in a text file or whatever,
try to stick to that because
and VARs are really easy to accidentally dump in a debugging session.
Like you can just type and it'll dump out everything and a lot of like CI builds or
you know debug log uploaders will just like kind of dump out the environment because it's useful to know and
filtering secrets out of that is a whole like
Discipline that you have to develop and like a lot of tools that do debug like sentry
Will have like a lot of code to do that filtering
But it's best if you could just put the secrets where the secrets go
so like one idiom that you could use is like you can put a
crypto key in your environment variable, which can't do
anything but like decrypt the text file. And so that key is
kind of useless outside the CI, whatever. And so you just like,
indirect it so that the actual secret is stored in a place that
is not just going to be dumped in every debug log.
But with the danger of maybe giving away too much, that's
what I do. I have a I have a one encryption key that's pretty
long and a really high level of encryption of the actual secret
somewhere else. And for me to add another secret, another API
endpoint as well to add it to this file, and then re encrypt
it, you know, it doesn't, it's sort of the same process. So
it's not like, well, these API's are encrypted that way. And the
database connection is encrypted that way. It's like, here's the
file that's got all the info in it. And then it's highly
encrypted.
Yeah. And that's exactly what I want to encourage people to do.
Put all your eggs in one basket and then watch the basket.
Passwords go in the password manager,
crypto stuff goes in the file.
Please, please, please don't let it get exposed.
Okay.
Yeah, let's wrap up this conversation
with a bit of a summary
from what you take away from your talk here.
- Yeah, so I think we've hammered home,
you know, you should use a password manager.
You should make sure that your master passwords
for that password manager are backed up.
One thing we didn't cover today,
but it's pretty big in the talk is like, you should trust the autofill on your password manager because like a
Lot of phishing attacks will make a very convincing website that will trick even the most seasoned security people
So like just if it doesn't autofill close the window type the URL by hand make sure it autofills
You should I think people often see that well, this is just the password managers incomplete
So it's not helping me with this website
Like that should be a super big red flag if the password manager is not suggesting to autofill.
Yeah. And one of my favorite things about 1Password is that they have been getting progressively more
aggressive about making it super annoying to like disable that. Like now when you do,
if you try to autofill with 1Password in the wrong app or the wrong website,
it now pops up a dialogue that's like, "Do you want to like add this URL? Do you want to fill
this once or was this a mistake? Like it will it will ask you
every time if you, you know, try to force it to. But obviously,
like copy paste kind of circumvents all those
protections. So like never ever use copy paste always try to get
it to autofill. You should use full disk encryption. Like just
turn on file vaulter. What's the Microsoft bitlocker? Yeah. Or DM
crypt I think is the Linux one like you should the technology
now is pretty much free. It doesn't really cost much in the way of performance. And it
gives you peace of mind if your laptop gets stolen, which is sadly a thing that, speaking
of GitHub credentials leaking constantly, laptops are stolen every day. So you should
make encrypted backups. You should make sure you have a restore plan because availability
is really important. Obviously, use keyring, use keyring, use keyring. And pick an appropriate
back end for the level of security that you need in each place where your code is deployed.
Yeah, absolutely. All right. Well, Cliff, thanks for thinking about all this for everyone
and giving us a list. And I think people will really enjoy your storytelling when the PyCon
video eventually comes out. Yeah, I can't wait to start sending people over to the YouTube video.
I was pretty proud of how it went. It's my first talk in quite a while because I don't know if you
You know, this, but the last few years have been a little,
a little stressful for everybody.
(laughing)
- A lot of stuff,
it scrambles up the whole conference track,
conference circuit a little bit, yes.
All right, before we get out of here,
let's give you a chance to give a shout out
to a PyPI package.
I mean, feel free to pick Keyring if you want one more time
or something else that you think is kind of awesome
people should check out.
- Wow, that's, that's always tough.
I remember I know that this question is coming every time I
want to spot guess.
I'll see like word, the choices are getting harder because we're
up to 456,000 packages on pipe. Yeah, how nuts is that?
Yeah, that's it's, there's a lot out there. I guess I should
take this as an opportunity to like, Oh, you know what,
actually, I do have a self promotion thing that I should
put in here that is not, we did not talk about at all today,
which is date type.
A date type is another little package that I wrote.
And it's a workaround for like one specific bug in the standard library,
um, which is that, dates are assignable to,
uh, like dates and date times are considered equivalent because they are,
uh, one subclass is the other.
And this will make it so that you can't assign a date time to a date.
Cause they don't actually, they're not compatible.
They're not Lispcoff substitutable.
And it will also give you separate types for naive and aware date times.
So you can't mix those up.
it is not actually a library.
It looks like a library and I guess it does have one function in it, but what
it actually is, is a bunch of abstract.
Protocol like type stubs.
And so the actual at runtime, there's still date times, everything
works exactly the same.
It doesn't change how your code behaves at all.
But by importing from DateType instead of DateTime,
you get this extra mypy type safety.
- Excellent. All right, very cool.
- So that, and also Rich,
'cause like that text UI stuff is amazing,
but I feel like everybody talks about that one.
- Right, which is awesome.
Will's doing a good job over there with that, for sure.
All right, final question.
If you're gonna work on DateType
or any of these other projects,
what editor are you using these days?
I use Emacs as I have for nigh on 30 years now.
- You prefer to have an operating system for your editor?
- You know, I don't treat it as an OS.
I feel like a lot of people, you know,
kind of live inside Emacs all the time.
And I use Emacs for a lot.
I think I love the text editing facilities.
Every time I kind of try to drop into like VS Code
or one of the, you know, new cool text editors,
I always like, the IDE stuff is often nicer than Emacs,
but the text editing itself, like the number of motions,
the kinds of things you can do to like select a word,
select a function, select a lines, you know,
select a sentence, rewrap a paragraph.
There's all these things that you do
as you're just working with text in Emacs.
So it's like a, it's a text editor
in a way that few other IDEs are really text editors.
- Yeah, I feel like Vim is a little more interchangeable.
- Yeah, I-- - A lot of the editors
have Vim bindings, right?
- I've used Vim, I actually kind of took a break
from Emacs for about two years at one point
and switched entirely to Vim.
But my Vim config has been slowly breaking over the years.
So I actually deleted the whole thing last year
and I've been trying to get into NeoVim,
but there's a little bit of a,
like it's a different world, so I haven't--
- Yeah. - Haven't managed
to get into it.
- Very cool.
All right, well, final call to action for people
who are now maybe a little bit nervous
and thinking about how they should
treat their secrets differently.
- Yeah, I mean, I think that that's a good point.
They might be a little nervous.
Relax, it's gonna be okay.
That's my call to action.
And use keyring and don't write docs
that tell people to paste stuff into their source code.
But mostly just relax and take this methodically.
Nobody's attacking you right now.
It's very easy to get worked up about security
think like, "Oh no, all of these attacks, all this horrible stuff could happen."
But really, today's the same as yesterday.
You just need to start adding those defenses a little bit at a time.
Absolutely.
Well, thanks again for being on the show.
It was great to catch up with you.
Thanks so much for having me.
This was great.
Yeah, you bet.